.TH "JUDO" "3" "Jul 31st 2025" "Judo 1.0.0"
.SH NAME
judo_result \- function status code
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable JSON parser (libjudo, -ljudo)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <judo.h>
.PP
.B enum judo_result {
.RS
.B JUDO_RESULT_SUCCESS,
.B JUDO_RESULT_BAD_SYNTAX,
.B JUDO_RESULT_NO_BUFFER_SPACE,
.B JUDO_RESULT_ILLEGAL_BYTE_SEQUENCE,
.B JUDO_RESULT_OUT_OF_RANGE,
.B JUDO_RESULT_INVALID_OPERATION,
.B JUDO_RESULT_MAXIMUM_NESTING,
.B JUDO_RESULT_OUT_OF_MEMORY,
.B JUDO_RESULT_MALFUNCTION,
.RE
.B };
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Most functions in the Judo API return one of these enumeration values.
Those that don't are higher-level, inspection-oriented APIs that operate on already derived data.
.SH CONSTANTS
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_SUCCESS
Operation successful.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_BAD_SYNTAX
Source text malformed.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_NO_BUFFER_SPACE
Insufficient buffer space.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_ILLEGAL_BYTE_SEQUENCE
Malformed Unicode encoded character.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_OUT_OF_RANGE
The value cannot be represented by the storage type.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_INVALID_OPERATION
Illegal API usage.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_MAXIMUM_NESTING
The JSON structure exceeds the maximum nesting depth.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_OUT_OF_MEMORY
Dynamic memory allocation failed.
.TP
.BR JUDO_RESULT_MALFUNCTION
Defect in the implementation.
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/judo
published here
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Judo is Free Software distributed under the GNU General Public License version 3 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
Alternatively, you can license the library under a proprietary license, as set out on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/judo/license/
Railgun Labs website
.UE .