.TH "JUDO" "1" "Sep 7th 2025" "Judo 1.1.0"
.SH NAME
judo \- JSON parser and pretty printer
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY judo
.OP \-\-quite
.OP \-\-pretty
.OP \-\-indent=\fIN\fR
.OP \-\-tabs
.OP \-\-escape
.YS
.SY judo
.B \-\-version
.YS
.SY judo
.B \-\-help
.YS
(See the OPTIONS section for details.)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
Judo is a command-line interface to the C library of the same name.
This program reads JSON from \fCstdin\fR and writes it back to \fCstdout\fR, optionally pretty printing it.
Errors are written to \fCstderr\fR.
Column indices are reported relative to the code point (not the code unit or grapheme cluster).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-q
.TQ
.BR \-\-quite
Do not print to \fCstdout\fR.
Use the exit status to check for success or errors.
.TP
.BR \-p
.TQ
.BR \-\-pretty
Print the JSON in a visually appealing way.
.TP
.BR \-i " \fIN\fP"
.TQ
.BR \-\-indent "=\fIN\fP"
Set the indention width to \fIN\fR spaces when pretty printing with spaces (default is 4).
.TP
.BR \-t
.TQ
.BR \-\-tabs
Indent with tabs instead of spaces when pretty printing.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 on success, 1 if the JSON input is malformed, 2 if an error occured while processing the JSON input, and 3 if an invalid command-line option was specified.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR judo (3)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/judo
published here
.UE .
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSING
Judo is Free Software distributed under the GNU General Public License version 3 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
Alternatively, you can license the library under a proprietary license, as set out on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/judo/license/
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
